# foodie-team-6
Contains prototypes for a calorie tracking application developed as part of the requirement for the Interdisciplinary Group Project module at UWE. 
Prototype versions based on initial requirement spec and MVP documented in the Blackboard wiki, each version building on its predescessor. 

## Version information
### V1
A jupyter notebook with data stored in .csv format, with the ability to determine the number of calories in a hardcoded image using the Google Vision API.

### V2
A jupyter notebook with data stored in a Firebase Firestore db.

### V3
A Jupyter notebook with the ability to accept an image from a user (using a file selection iPyWidget) and determine the number of calories in it.

### V4
A notebook with a Python API broken out seperately, and automated testing with the ability to scrape a folder of images and determine the calorie counts+accuracy of the labeling.

### V5 
A simple GUI developed using PySimpleGUI to accept an image from a user and display the number of calories using the API developed in V4.



## Setup instructions and running
* Clone the repo 
* Run install.py.
* Setup Google Cloud Vision locally, set the env variable for authentication - Refer the [official tutorial](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-vision-api-python#1)
* Create a /key folder in the project root and save the key generated by google vision (.json)
* Setup Firebase, upload the data of your choice (we used the [food-101 calorie dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vaishnavivenkatesan/food-and-their-calories) from Kaggle) using the write_to_firebase function, save the key in the same folder as the Google Vision Key.
* Run GUI.py. 

